---
title: "1.19.4 - 45.1 RB"
date:
draft: true
categories:
- Release Announcements
author: illy
summary: "Recommended build 1.19.4"
description: "1.19.4 now has its first recommend build as always we recommend users update to this version at a minimum"
---

**Forge Version** 45.1
**Minecraft Version** 1.16.4

**Downloads:**
* **Changelog**: [Direct](https://maven.minecraftforge.net/net/minecraftforge/forge/1.19.4-45.1.0/forge-1.19.4-45.1.0-changelog.txt)
* **Installer**: [AdFocus](https://adfoc.us/serve/sitelinks/?id=271228&url=https://maven.minecraftforge.net/net/minecraftforge/forge/1.19.4-45.1.0/forge-1.19.4-45.1.0-installer.jar) [Direct](https://maven.minecraftforge.net/net/minecraftforge/forge/1.19.4-45.1.0/forge-1.19.4-45.1.0-installer.jar)
* **MDK** [AdFocus](https://adfoc.us/serve/sitelinks/?id=271228&url=https://maven.minecraftforge.net/net/minecraftforge/forge/1.19.4-45.1.0/forge-1.19.4-45.1.0-mdk.zip) [Direct](https://maven.minecraftforge.net/net/minecraftforge/forge/1.19.4-45.1.0/forge-1.19.4-45.1.0-mdk.zip)

### Intro

The days are warmer there's a new smell in the air... Wait there's a new smell!? Smells like a recommended build!
Thanks to everyone who contributed.

### Changelog

- Add method to GatherDataEvent to obtain collection of all input paths. (#9499)
- Log error when Sheets is class-loaded before registration is completed (#9475)
- [1.19.x] Re-implement RenderTooltipEvent.Color (#9497)
    - Reimplement RenderTooltipEvent.Color
    - Formatting, comments, EXC
    - Deprecate instead of replacing
- Add API for registering custom world preset editors (#9436)
- Remove unneeded extra reload of datapacks on world creation screen (#9454)
- Bump ASM to 9.5
- Fix crash when running server from root directory
    - Fixes #9498
- Fix root transform matrix format, allow using all four root transform formats (#9496)
- Add missing AT lines to allow registering custom game rule boolean/integer types (#9489)
- [1.19.x] Fix SaplingGrowTreeEvent#setFeature being ignored in FungusBlock (#9485)
    - Co-authored-by: Brennan Ward <3682588+Shadows-of-Fire@users.noreply.github.com>
- Restore AccessibilityOnboardingScreen
    - Fixes #9488
- Update documentation on FinalizeSpawn (#9467)
- Fix fluids without sound event causing exception in tryFillContainer and tryEmptyContainer (#9445)
- Make FakePlayerFactory respect the given ServerLevel (#9479)
- Collect and log exceptions occurring in DeferredWorkQueue tasks (#9449)
- Fix `NamespacedWrapper#wrapAsHolder` (#9450)
- Fixes ChatScreen calling .setScreen (#9443)
    - Fix test compile failures also.
- Determine the Forge version the PR was built against when running PR compat checks (#9374)
- Add buildscript test to error on deprecated members that should of been removed. (#9460)
- Remove erroneous brace patch in Inventory (#9462)
    - Fixes #9459
- [1.19.4] Move root transform builder to ModelBuilder to allow use in ItemModelBuilder (#9456)
- Fix forge grindstone hooks allowing stacks of non-stackable items (#9457)
- [1.19.4] Fix FMLOnly (#9415)
- Fix ItemLayerModel erroneously adding particle texture to layer texture list (#9441)
- Temporary fix for Canceling ProjectileImpactEvents of Piercing ammo.
    - Event needs to be re-worked to have finer control. #9370
- Fix dummy air blocks not being marked as air (#9440)
- Add support for splitting the login packet (#9367)
    - It contains full copies of data registries and can easily surpass vanilla's limits
- Remove Attack Range and Reach Distance and add Block Reach and Entity Reach (#9361)
- Add default bucket sounds for milk (#9432)
- Deprecate Item.onUsingTick, as vanilla provides the same function in Item.onUseTick now. Closes #9342
- Fix ScreenEvent.Init.[Pre/Post] not working correctly (#9431)
- Allow FenceGateBlock to be used without a WoodType. Closes #9392
- Deprecate duplicate tool tags that vanilla added in 1.19.4
    - We will maintain a seperate 'tools' tag until Mojang adds all relevent tool tags.
    - Closes #9393
- Fix BlockEvent.Break not using ItemStack enchantment hooks.
- Move Block.onCatchFire to above block removal to allow usage of BlockEntity data. Closes #9400
- Fix FinalizeSpawn not blocking spawns during worldgen (#9420)
- Fixed issue with MutableHashedLinkedMap when removing multiple sequential entries in the middle of the map.
    - Added Unit tests for MutableHashLinkedMap
    - Added support for removing using the iterator
    - Added concurrent modification detection to the iterator
    - Added default constructor with basic hashing strategy.
    - Closes #9426
- Loosen access for BucketItem's canBlockContainFluid (#9421)
- Update and Regenerate Datapacks (#9419)
    - Add generation for pack.mcmeta
- Restore ability to change message in ClientChatEvent (#9377)
- Remove duplicate line in FoodData patch (#9424)
          The line was accidentally duplicated in the 1.19.4 update and patching
          process.
          Fixes #9422
- Rename RegisterParticleProviderEvent's register methods to describe what kind of particle providers they register (deprecating old methods to avoid breaking) and minor docs tweaks (#9388)
- Update pack versions (#9414)
- [1.19.4] Revamp and fix spawn events (#9133)
- [1.19.4] Replace blitOffset parameter with PoseStack in IItemDecorator (#9409)
    - Replace blitOffset with PoseStack in IItemDecorator
    - Circumvent breaking changes
    - Fix blitOffset type
- Fix JSON model root transforms (#9410)
- Fix tossed items not being able to be picked up by other players. Closes #9412 (#9404)
- Fix infinite BE render bounds failing frustum intersection test. Closes #9321 (#9407)
- Make ForgeSlider use the new vanilla texture (#9406)
- Add BlockSetType#register to accesstransformer.cfg (#9386)
- Add option to completely hide a crash-callable depending on a runtime value (#9372)
- Add isNewChunk to ChunkEvent.Load (#9369)
- Remove DistExecutor calls in PistonEventTest (#9348)
- Fix hardcoded precipitation in ClimateSettingsBuilder (#9402)
    - This effectively caused all biomes to have precipitation, such as
    - minecraft:desert.
    - Fixes #9397
- Fix incorrect variable used for swimming check (#9403)
    - Because of the incorrect variable, the check to stop sprinting (and stop
    - swimming) never fired correctly.
    - 1.19.3's `flag5` variable was renamed to `flag7` in 1.19.4; however,
    - this was not caught during patching because of the fuzzy patcher.
    - Fixes #9399
- Fix incorrect boolean used for glint effect (#9401)
    - The `flag1` variable is ultimately controlled by whether the armor slot
    - being rendered is for the leggings, which explains this bug where the
    - leggings always had the enchantment glint but not any other armor piece.
    - Fixes #9394
- Fixed ModMismatchDisconnectedScreen displaying missing mods wrongly (#9398)
- Fix misaligned text render type patch (#9391)
- Remove thread filter from processing clientside custom payloads. Closes @9390
- Fix LivingEntity patch which caused crash while entities got hurt. Closes #9389
- Fix wrong parameters in `Screen#renderTooltipInternal` patch (#9387)
- Fix misaligned patch in LevelRenderer. Closes #9385
- Remove our fix for MC-121048 as it has been fixed by Vanilla (#9381)
- Fix advancements not loading, bug seems to be fixed by vanilla now. Closes #9384
- Fixed patch verifier for cases where patches lowered access levels. Closes #9383
- Fix crouching while sprinting stopping the player when step height is modified. Closes #9376
- Forge 1.19.4
    - Properly move `ServerStatusPing` to codec
    - Reimplement custom display contexts
    - Co-authored-by: Matyrobbrt <matyrobbrt@gmail.com>
    - Co-authored-by: coehlrich <coehlrich@users.noreply.github.com>
